Data Mining Notes
Introduction
1. Iterative steps of data mining
  1.1 Data cleaning (to remove noise and inconsistent data)
  1.2 Data integration (where multiple data sources may be combined)
  1.3 Data selection (where data relevant to the analysis task are retrieved from the database)
  1.4 Data transformation (where data are transformed and consolidated into forms appropriate for mining by performing summary or aggregation operations)
  1.5 Data mining (an essential process where intelligent methods are applied to extract data patterns)
  1.6 Pattern evaluation (to identify the truly interesting patterns representing knowledge based on interestingness measures)
  1.7 Knowledge presentation (where visualization and knowledge representation techniques are used to present mined knowledge to users)

2. ER (entity-relationship) data model

3. Data warehouse
  3.1 Definition
    a repository of information collected from multiple sources,
    stored under a unified schema,
    and usually residing at a single site.
  3.2 data warehouse is modeled by data cube
    3.2.1 dimension
          corresponds to an attribute or a set of attributes in the schema
    3.2.2 cell
          stores the value of some aggregate measure
          e.g.
            count, sum

4. class/concept description can be derived from
  4.1 data characterization
        summarizing the data of the class under study (often called target class) in general terms
  4.2 data discrimination
        comparison of the target class with one or a set of comparative classes (often called  the contrasting classes)
  Note: User Profile is an implementation of such class/concept description

5. Association (Frequent Patterns)
  5.1 support: the percentage of a particular pattern in the whole records
                support(X => Y) = P(X U Y)
                rules < support usually considered uninteresting
  5.2 confidence: the certainty of such pattern appears given a particular predicate
                confidence(X => Y) = P(Y | X)
                rules < confidence usually referred as noise

6. Classification
    the process of finding a  model that describes and distinguishes data classes or concepts
  6.1 model
    6.1.1 data objects whose class labels are known
    6.1.2 it is used to predict the class label of objects for which the class label is unknown
    6.1.3 presentation
            classification rules, decision trees, mathematical formulae, neural networks

7. regression
    models continuous-valued functions

8. Cluster analysis
    unlike classification and regression,
    which analyze class-labeled (training) data sets,
    clustering analyzes data objects without consulting class labels
    clustering can be used to generate "labels"

9. Attribute types
  9.1 Numeric Attriubtes
    9.1.1 interval-scaled attributes
            where true 0 does not exist
    9.1.2 ration-scaled attributes
            where true 0 exist

10. Basic statical descriptions of data
  10.1 central tendency, which measures the location of the middle or center of a data distribution
    10.1.1 mean
    10.1.2 median
    10.1.3 mode
    10.1.4 midrange
  10.2 dispersion of the data
    10.2.1 range
    10.2.2 quartiles
    10.2.3 interquartile range
    10.2.4 five-number summary
    10.2.5 boxplots
  10.3 graphic displays
    10.3.1 bar charts
    10.3.2 pie charts
    10.3.3 line graphs
    10.3.4 quantile plots
    10.3.5 quantile-quantile plots
    10.3.6 histograms
    10.3.7 scatter plots

11. IQR (Interquartile Range)
      IQR = Q3-Q1

12. "five-number summary" of a distribution
      consists of:
        Minimum, Q1, Median, Q3, Maximum

13. Boxplots
      popular way of visualizing a distribution.
      x-axis: different observations of the same kind of property
      y-axis: values of the observed data
              it can be viewed as an inverted x-axis of a distribution diagram
      A boxplot incorporates the five-number summary as follows:
        1. typically, the ends of the box are at the quartiiles so that
           the length is the interquartile range.
        2. the median is marked by a line within the box
        3. two lines (called whiskers) outside the box extend to the minimum and maximum
        4. boxplot should also present outliers,
           when the value is less than 1.5 * IQR beyond the quartiles

14. quantile plot:
      used to compare quantiles and other f values
      x-axis: graphed against f, f=(i-0.5)/N
      y-axis: value of the variable

15. quantile-quantile plot (q-q plot)
      graphs the quantiles of one univariate distribution
      against the corresponding quantiles of another.
      It allows the user to view whether there is a shift in going
      from one distribution to another

16. Scatter plot
      is one of the most effective graphical methods for determining
      if there appears to be a relationship, pattern or trend between two numeric attributes.

17. 

Data Warehousing and Online Analytical Processing
1. Differences between Operational Database Systems and Data Warehouses
  1.1 OLTP (Online transaction processing), traditional RDBMS
        is customer-oriented
  1.2 OLAP (Online analytical processing)
        is market-oriented

2. OLAP Operations
  2.1. Roll-up
    performs aggregation on a data cube.
    either by climbing up a concept hierarchy for a dimension or by dimension reduction

  2.2. Drill-down
      navigates from less detailed data to more detailed data.
      drill-down can be realized by either stepping down a concept hierarchy for a dimension
      or introducing additional dimensions

  2.3. Slice and dice:
      the slice operation performs a selection on one dimension of the given cube, resulting in a subcube
      the dice operation defines a subcube by performing a selection on two or more dimensions

  2.4. Pivot
        also called rotate,
        is a visualization operation,
        that rotates the data axes in view to provide an alternative data presentation

3. three kinds of data warehouse applications:
  3.1 information processing
  3.2 analytical processing
  3.3 data mining
